John Mertic: Hey, Mike.
Hey john how's it going
Mike MacIsaac: It's going, how are you
Doing
Mike MacIsaac: Ah, finally doing Barry got a bit of a cold and it just wanted to hang on for two weeks. You know, it's time of year.
I mean,
Mike MacIsaac: I'm not complaining.
John Mertic: To say that's better than coronavirus right
So,
John Mertic: Good times, good. How about you.
Mike MacIsaac: How's your new year. Um,
John Mertic: You know so far so good. Um, yeah, I mean just kind of lots going on. Um, you know, lots of things in the various projects that we're trying to figure out, but, uh, you know, we're getting there.
Mike MacIsaac: It's one, it's one step at a time.
John Mertic: We're trying not to make it one step forward, two steps back. But, you know, we do the best we can, I guess, right.
Mike MacIsaac: Yeah. So yeah.
John Mertic: But no, we're, we're getting there.
Mike MacIsaac: Well, cool.
John Mertic: Um, alright, so I'm just playing
Phil Tully: Slow down. Hey, Mike.
Hey,
John Mertic: Hey Phil Mr telly.
Phil Tully: This is the first time I'm actually using the computer audio.
John Mertic: remarkably clear
Phil Tully: That's what I was actually surprised.
John Mertic: That's funny. It's funny, I actually I'm going to switch back over to my phone audio. I've been having problems with the internet here today. So I'm going to switch over to my phone audio.
John Mertic: In the meantime, Phil has husband Z 15 is coming along.
Phil Tully: We've gotten to when we're putting another one this weekend. We had some significant issue. The first
Phil Tully: You don't say.
Oh, yeah.
John Mertic: Alright can you still hear me.
Phil Tully: Yes, yes.
Mike MacIsaac: I was good.
John Mertic: Yeah. Now, I may yeah I switched over to my phone. So yeah, it's probably not quite as good
John Mertic: All right. I see.
John Mertic: Dan and Len in the background, are you both doing
Peter Fandel: And this is Peter fan. Now I just joined as well.
John Mertic: Ah, cool. I saw you. I was we've been asked to open was and that sounds like it's theater.
Peter Fandel: Yeah, I'm connecting from my Mac at home. Not sure why that doesn't automatically
Peter Fandel: Put in the name.
John Mertic: No worries. No worries. We'll give it a couple minutes for others to join in.
Len Santalucia: Hi everybody.
Bob Dahlberg: Hi john long time
Bob Dahlberg: graduations land on being a IBM Champion.
Len Santalucia: Oh, thank you.
Bob Dahlberg: But that's been no news to all of us.
John Mertic: Don't need the idea champion. After London right now.
John Mertic: Thank you.
Len Santalucia: Very nice, very much for the kind words.
Len Santalucia: And other well deserved.
John Mertic: Alright, we're having people really started to roll in now.
John Mertic: All right.
John Mertic: We'll give it one more. Do you think he'll give a warm minute and see if we get anybody else that pops in.
John Mertic: I
John Mertic: Don't know if we'll get to him today or not we're kind of teetering on the edge of that I think we have three of the
John Mertic: Three of the seven. So if we get into more were or one or two more were there, but I don't think there's really much to vote on anyway so
John Mertic: I appreciate your popped in
Mike Friesenegger: Hello, Mike.
John Mertic: Hello. Hey,
John Mertic: Well, how are you
John Mertic: I'm doing well. Thank you.
John Mertic: Excellent. Do you know if Mark post is joining today.
Mike Friesenegger: I don't let me see if I can ping him.
John Mertic: Okay.
John Mertic: just popped in
John Mertic: Alright, well it were a couple minutes after the hour here, Phil, do you think we should go kind of get rolling into things.
John Mertic: That as well.
John Mertic: Sounds good. Alright, welcome everyone to this month's meeting of the Technical Advisory Council put in the chat. The meeting agenda. It's also available online as well if you want to follow along at home, I can try to pull up
John Mertic: I don't have it. I don't have it handy with the moment, but I can pull up in the background.
John Mertic: Items for today really just kind of walking through project update there was two projects that I think we had open action items from last time was around the incubation status renewal and so that was the Adam plugins and terse decompress and I think it was on
John Mertic: If I remember the action for last time I believe Ingo is going to follow up and I haven't heard anything there. So we might need to table that one.
John Mertic: And then I also put in there, you know, just some of the projects.
John Mertic: That I've started to see that are potentially looking to be proposed and we hadn't traditionally done this and attack but
John Mertic: I think it's some of these might be good for visibility for everyone. And, you know, also as a way to sort of spring discussion as well. So that was everything I captured for today. I don't know if anybody had anything else they would like to add in today's call.
Len Santalucia: Are we able to discuss anything to do with the upcoming internship program on this call, or is that not the place to discuss it.
Len Santalucia: So we do
John Mertic: A great question when so we do have
John Mertic: I do have on here, a project update from the
Mentorship
John Mertic: Program updates. So I think that if no, no, it's okay, it's okay. There's a lot of projects. It's easy to miss.
John Mertic: I was looking at it. I
Len Santalucia: ran over thank you john
John Mertic: No, no worries. No worries.
Len Santalucia: Um, any, anything else. Oh, cool.
John Mertic: Cool, I see you then. Anything else anybody
John Mertic: No. No. All good. All good. Anybody else have anything to add.
Phil Tully: Okay, well, what
John Mertic: Excellent. Let's dig into this project updates will start at the top.
John Mertic: With alphabetical order Amadeus. We have one of the code TLC chairs Joe Devlin on the line. So I don't know Joe put you on the spot. Do you have any updates to share
Joe Devlin: The only thing that's
Joe Devlin: Happening is I'm
Joe Devlin: As well, no, no, the interns are actually working on that project so that it's
Joe Devlin: Things are slow. I will say that
John Mertic: I will
Joe Devlin: I'll hide under a rock.
Mike MacIsaac: What is ambitious.
Joe Devlin: Ambitious is the language projects, trying to get languages and editors and other things on extended on the mainframe, there is some movement on IBM about which
Joe Devlin: Which language projects are being taken on internally at IBM and sort of shifting the focus, but
Joe Devlin: Still, the basic port of
Joe Devlin: Ll VM.
Joe Devlin: based languages like climbing, you know, which includes C and c++ in a standard form is still in the ambitious arena. So we probably need to make a
Joe Devlin: Joe and I need to make a restatement of the goals. I think that
Joe Devlin: Kevin stupidly, who is the IBM fellow in charge of a language implementation for the CEOs.
Joe Devlin: Has sort of steak to slightly different shape of claims of what his department will be doing. So that's probably the the
Most news that I have
Joe Devlin: As Peter here from rocket
John Mertic: Yet Peters here as well. Yeah.
Peter Fandel: Yeah, I was on mute. Yes, yes, I am here.
Joe Devlin: And it's saying you have you have the same understanding right that that the
Joe Devlin: Were sort of maybe not rotating 90 degrees, but at least some number of degrees to point it somewhat different languages. Based on that, but also I don't know whether you've had further conversations with
Joe Devlin: Toronto about what's in
Peter Fandel: No, I haven't. I just know that they
Peter Fandel: There is a significant demand for
Peter Fandel: For Python and
Peter Fandel: Go to be considered first class languages on the mainframe.
Joe Devlin: That if IBM yeah thanks their strategic they're going to go and have the Toronto team.
Joe Devlin: Build them so
John Mertic: Which I don't really know. I mean, you know, this is one of these open
Joe Devlin: I would say that
Joe Devlin: It's still a little weird, like every other platform has their languages, built by by open source cams. And at the end, the proprietary language thing still seems to be
Joe Devlin: Not quite in the same spirit of other sub projects of the Linux Foundation.
John Mertic: You know,
Joe Devlin: The GCC.
Joe Devlin: And Haskell and climbing and everything else that and, you know,
Joe Devlin: Seems to be the language development.
Joe Devlin: Rest of the platforms in the
Joe Devlin: world seems to be a lot less proprietary
John Mertic: Probably a fair observation. I didn't know others on the on the attack, and he would go to some of your old other's thoughts.
Peter Fandel: Believe that the Python license.
Peter Fandel: Allows
For
Peter Fandel: For non sharing
Peter Fandel: For for porn.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, but I'm just saying is that this thing is in the spirit of just certain
Joe Devlin: It's a little bit odd as a
Joe Devlin: As a Linux Foundation.
Joe Devlin: Project. Yeah.
Peter Fandel: I agree. Yeah, that would be
Peter Fandel: Even better.
Yeah.
Bob Dahlberg: So, what, what's the status of Java Oracle just made.
Bob Dahlberg: You know the newer releases as proprietary now everything. You got to pay for the licensing.
Bob Dahlberg: Tacos are there.
Peter Fandel: Is going to say that they're the alternative to Oracle Java is open JDK, and I believe there. I don't know that they're forking but open JDK, you can find. And today you can find an open JDK equivalent of any Oracle Java.
Joe Devlin: I don't know if that's true, yet I think Bob specific question might be about on CEOs IBM built
Joe Devlin: Own implementation of Java, which is very nice. They are an oracle licensee but what is their post Java eight plan, do they
Joe Devlin: Get on a bus bus where they give Oracle more money and stay closer to the Oracle main line or do they switch over all of their post Java eight development to the open
Bob Dahlberg: You would think that Java Oracle would be
Bob Dahlberg: You know, the fact that Java their whole reason for its inception in the first place was because there were different chips, you know, and there's a lot of x86 now.
Bob Dahlberg: You know you don't you don't really need that they have different chips, except for the Z and x86 that they would. That's one of the reasons for Java to begin with, when it was a song.
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah, so to abandon that would be not good.
Joe Devlin: Well, I don't know, it'd be another Kevin steadily.
Joe Devlin: Question for you.
John Mertic: Yeah.
John Mertic: Find him.
Joe Devlin: Or maybe, Mr boss him.
Joe Devlin: He's not on the call today, but he might
Joe Devlin: He might know that as well.
Bob Dahlberg: Now one of the
Bob Dahlberg: One of the reasons why.
Bob Dahlberg: People would want to go to Open Source is I was
Bob Dahlberg: Working on the
Bob Dahlberg: Linux. What is that
The
Bob Dahlberg: I forget the extended security you know where they do the
Bob Dahlberg: Anyway, they were
Bob Dahlberg: The NSA was at the NSA, the symposium. This was a number of years back.
Len Santalucia: But the security people from the NSA
Bob Dahlberg: made an announcement that they will only stand for government use, they will only stand by open source, open source software because proprietary software they consider unsafe.
John Mertic: Because
Bob Dahlberg: They can't see the
Code.
Bob Dahlberg: So that that would be a reason why it from a government standpoint, that would be a
Bob Dahlberg: Government contracts.
John Mertic: Having open source would be
Bob Dahlberg: A reason why they would want to be belong to the Linux Foundation and the open
John Mertic: mainframe.
Rick Troth: Were you. Were you thinking of se Linux.
Bob Dahlberg: Se Lennox. That's it. Yeah, or
Piece of shit.
Bob Dahlberg: Well, I was with
Bob Dahlberg: Computer associates doing program happening. And I pointed out, they were making all the same mistakes.
Bob Dahlberg: We made with program path in 2030 years ago so
Yeah.
John Mertic: Definitely good discussion. It sounds like a little bit. I think you're, you're kind of going after this show is
John Mertic: You know, typically the maintenance and upkeep of, you know, something like GCC, or Python or whatever on different architectures.
John Mertic: It's it's available cleanly to the community.
John Mertic: Obviously, there's still commercial support avenues. But there's multiple avenues available, including one which is just a pure open
John Mertic: Source Avenue and where you're seeing the challenges with some of these languages where the porting work is done by IBM that IBM is certainly the only path. You can go down. Is that is that
John Mertic: The agenda where you're going from
Joe Devlin: Right, and that and that the mainframe has been running
Rick Troth: behind in terms of
Joe Devlin: The up to date. Miss of versions and the breadth of popular languages implemented by going down this walled garden approach, you know, and it's just, it would be better if the
Joe Devlin: Code was open and the QA suites are open that people could verify that it wasn't safe, you know,
Joe Devlin: By public means that just think that
Rick Troth: It makes the mainframe.
Joe Devlin: Sort of a you know a
Rick Troth: Backwater
Rick Troth: You don't get to us and pretty.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, if I
Joe Devlin: Take that back strong
Joe Devlin: To us. It makes us a backwater for language.
Rick Troth: Yeah. And the reason I picked that is because you know if it compiles on Linux, then we don't have any any instruction set issues.
Rick Troth: And that's significant
Rick Troth: So some of these things, occasionally will run into character set problems.
Rick Troth: I know that was true for pearl back in the day.
Rick Troth: I have no idea if that's an issue with Python and such.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, I mean, when Peter his team is doing the ports. They the big one of the biggest overheads of everything is wrestling with that all the different modalities of automatically converting streams on input and output or not, you know, and, and, and all that.
Phil Tully: So I'm
Phil Tully: Not sure if we're going to solve a
Problem here are the TSA
John Mertic: Yeah, I was. I was talking on mute and saying the exact same thing filter. Thanks for jumping in the air. Yeah, it sounds like something maybe to take into discussion at the end of this project, but it sounds like what I'm hearing, at least for this group is
John Mertic: There, it's definitely supportive of me to sort of pushing in that direction.
Rick Troth: There's, there's really no way to to do that on a grand scale. It's got to be taken on a case by case basis.
Rick Troth: And in different languages.
Rick Troth: You know, it would help to isolate the issues.
Rick Troth: So that you can get the bulk of the updates from the open
Rick Troth: Source community and then anything that is specific.
Rick Troth: Try and isolate that and not that that's easy to do. But clearly, that will also be different from one project to another.
Rick Troth: That kind of isolation of
Zero specific issues.
John Mertic: Exactly, yeah. Yeah, I'm right now.
Bob Dahlberg: Trying to rationalize the software that you know you're trying to get a mainframe here at VCU. And of course, I mean, ask all kinds of questions about, well we got all this x86 software is all going to port.
Bob Dahlberg: And it
Bob Dahlberg: Would be
Bob Dahlberg: Good to know what the issues are and what you need to do to port. A to Z series machine.
Bob Dahlberg: Or what are the alternatives, you know,
Yeah.
John Mertic: Well, let's let's keep going with this great conversation.
John Mertic: This is, this is really kind of the great lively conversation to have with this, this group.
John Mertic: I don't think we have any updates from the atom plugins project and I believe the action item was for NGOs to follow up and have not heard anything there.
John Mertic: I guess from the tech perspective, a lot of the discussion here was the renewal. The incubation status is the stands. They want to take is just waiting to hear back from Ingo before making a decision is that
Len Santalucia: Borders the tech wanting to make a decision.
John Mertic: I guess, Phil, I look to you for you a little bit on your leadership here if we want to wait for NGO to get more of an update from them or
Phil Tully: Yeah, I'd wait for Ingo. I mean, there's no
Phil Tully: You
John Mertic: No rush. Yeah, there was really no rush on this.
John Mertic: I haven't heard from me go at all.
So,
John Mertic: Okay.
John Mertic: All right well been pretty. Yeah. So, Fei long we got Mr. Freeze and eager that can give us an update their
Mike Friesenegger: A or or gene. So, because both James incident and I are co chairs on it but James
John Mertic: Lead the last name here sorry did I didn't notice the James was here. I'm so sorry about that. Welcome. No, no.
John Mertic: Oh, thank you.
James Vincent: Finally, made one
James Vincent: As far as what's what's happened so far since the last meeting with the group, we
James Vincent: did talk about the CI CD environments and
James Vincent: We have a hope and dream.
Len Santalucia: That
James Vincent: We will be able to utilize the CI CD environments that are
James Vincent: already out there for the Zoe platform.
James Vincent: I know that there are I've heard there's discussions going on. See if we can make that a reality. But if not, there's discussions.
John Mertic: On
James Vincent: The possibility of hosting it in different places. A couple of the people that are involved in the project.
James Vincent: Have raised their hands and said, it's
James Vincent: It's quite possible to host
John Mertic: That kind of thing on their
Systems.
James Vincent: We're going to, you know, like I said,
James Vincent: Hope that the Zoe.
James Vincent: Part that discussions in the
In the Zoe.
James Vincent: Platform.
James Vincent: Turn out positive and we can move forward, trying to arrange something there.
Phil Tully: But
Phil Tully: We definitely have a
Phil Tully: We have a meeting next week to discuss them. I think it's next week, I have to look at my calendar so chock full cool
John Mertic: This
John Mertic: Yes, I think I saw that yeah yeah and and James I can add you to that in the evening Eastern time, I don't know, you might not have been added, but I can add you to that meeting. If you'd like a code. It's 9pm on
Phil Tully: The team. That's why I couldn't find it was out
Yeah.
John Mertic: Yeah, having to accommodate
John Mertic: multiple continents.
John Mertic: Came to me to add you to that call. I am not going to be available at
James Vincent: That time. Sorry.
John Mertic: Okay, no worries. I just want to make for you that weren't available or 9pm and the
John Mertic: 18th, you said
Mike Friesenegger: This is my tree hugger. Yeah. At night 9pm Eastern yeah yeah okay 9pm Eastern 7pm.
Mike Friesenegger: My time. Yeah, no problem.
John Mertic: Okay, and I will add you to it, I realized you were not on it for some reason. So I'm going to add you to it right now. No problem.
John Mertic: I'm Mike
James Vincent: Yeah.
James Vincent: If there's anything else you want to add
Mike Friesenegger: One to
Mike Friesenegger: Two other things. One is, is we are
Mike Friesenegger: Working with
Mike Friesenegger: With a
Mike Friesenegger: Number of
Mike Friesenegger: Other organizations that have
Mike Friesenegger: Z systems and seeing if we can't
Mike Friesenegger: Figure out a way to get developer
Mike Friesenegger: Access so that so that developers can actually
John Mertic: Test.
Mike Friesenegger: The thing long code and make contributions to it. A lot of contributions for you may by IBM at this point in which is great.
Mike Friesenegger: But we'd love to the
Mike Friesenegger: Community to be able to make contributions as well.
Mike Friesenegger: And that was one item and then the second item is for our next meeting, which is next.
Mike Friesenegger: Week, we
Mike Friesenegger: We really want to see what
Mike Friesenegger: I would love to see what we can do to drum up
Mike Friesenegger: And get more
John Mertic: Interaction
Mike Friesenegger: And more people interested
Mike Friesenegger: In the Fei long project. So we're going to discuss that.
Mike Friesenegger: But I thought I'd bring it up on this call.
Mike Friesenegger: Because I know that you know infrastructures, just
Mike Friesenegger: Service utilizing Z bn may
Mike Friesenegger: Be something, some of the
Mike Friesenegger: Folks on this call might be interested in.
Mike Friesenegger: And if you're
Mike Friesenegger: You're welcome to join the phone call.
Mike Friesenegger: If you want to hear. Listen, and
Mike Friesenegger: possibly contribute
Mike Friesenegger: And that's it.
John Mertic: Sounds great.
John Mertic: Sounds great. Thank you.
John Mertic: Thank you. Any questions for anybody.
John Mertic: Okay, moving ahead. I know Gary
John Mertic: Had to, you know, essentially, as regards for today's meeting.
John Mertic: I'm going to use a little bit of my Spider sense here. I was on a previous call they did get their code repository moved underneath the open mainframe project GitHub, so that is in progress.
John Mertic: He's starting to take a look at the CI best practice badge and he's also sort of he's also lived in the same conversation.
John Mertic: Around converting that existing Ci, Ci CD environment to a common or empty one, at least for the, the non Maris portion with that. So that's pretty much all the update I have there. Any, any questions or any or if anybody has any better updates, feel free to chime in.
John Mertic: Okay touristy compressed I'm, I'm assuming, feel the same idea here of just keep postponing this discussion, until we hear back from ego. I think he had the action on and both of those, if I recall. Right, exactly.
John Mertic: Um, and then Zorro. I don't know if we have anybody in bizarro project on this call. I don't think I see Heron on the call.
John Mertic: I actually know they've been a little bit behind on TLC meetings, I think. But I think there's actually one later today, if I'm not mistaken, so
John Mertic: Maybe you can get an update after that.
John Mertic: 50 had to the active projects at. I don't think we have James caffery on the line, but I do know just from seeing some of the slack conversations that he does have an eight potential a mentee very interested in adding engine X and spark log support.
John Mertic: So it looks like there might be some activity going on there.
John Mertic: Mentorship Bob, do you want to provide an update.
Bob Dahlberg: Sure we have 24 applicants. As of today, which is not unprecedented at this point in the the
Bob Dahlberg: App.
Bob Dahlberg: Collection of applications free we were about this many last year.
Bob Dahlberg: And we ended up with 104
Bob Dahlberg: We've had some probably got a flyer that we're about ready to distribute on social media.
Bob Dahlberg: For the
Bob Dahlberg: Internship and we're also going to
Bob Dahlberg: Send out a mass emailing
Bob Dahlberg: To all our Member of academic members on the open mainframe.
Bob Dahlberg: With with the flyer and an invitation.
Bob Dahlberg: For to have their students apply. Traditionally, the last couple of years, we've had a huge amount of students from India.
Bob Dahlberg: In the program.
Bob Dahlberg: Which is fine, but we want to get some diversity. We want to get some European
Bob Dahlberg: And don't understand why the European
Bob Dahlberg: And the American universities aren't applying
Bob Dahlberg: Now we're having more American
Bob Dahlberg: University is applying now.
Bob Dahlberg: We had some problems with the form
Bob Dahlberg: It was I was getting problems.
Bob Dahlberg: With it, and I think students were too. So we fix that this morning.
Bob Dahlberg: So we're good to go.
Bob Dahlberg: Now the applications are all due by the 29th.
Bob Dahlberg: And I think once we get all the applications together.
Bob Dahlberg: Probably on I'm thinking march 2 which is the following Monday.
Bob Dahlberg: Seeing if we can't get the mentors together and this
Bob Dahlberg: Will discuss the process.
Bob Dahlberg: Of how we're going to pick the mentors mentees
Bob Dahlberg: And
Bob Dahlberg: The contact and go over the mentees themselves.
Bob Dahlberg: And divide them up by what projects they want. So the men mentors can start selecting which
Bob Dahlberg: mentees. They want to enter interview. So the whole processes.
Bob Dahlberg: Week we collect the
John Mertic: Information from the students
Bob Dahlberg: You know their applications.
Bob Dahlberg: And they shouldn't be contacting the mentors.
Bob Dahlberg: The reason why they're contacting mentors, because they can look at the projects.
Bob Dahlberg: And really there's no need for it. They just should get a basic feel for the projects project selection and project definition is once we choose the students who are going to be mentees
Bob Dahlberg: That break in period which goes for about a month or three
Bob Dahlberg: A couple of weeks that is intended for the mentor and the mentee to define
Bob Dahlberg: The project. So there should be it. You know, it's a one page right now. It's a one page description of what the project is basically about and if they're interested they can apply if they're
Bob Dahlberg: If they don't know if they're interested
Bob Dahlberg: They can apply for more than one project.
Bob Dahlberg: So the students should not be
Bob Dahlberg: bothering the mentors. At this point, if you do get bothered.
Bob Dahlberg: Will put the flyer up so that you can just send them the flyer and say look at what what you're interested in. We're not gonna have any detail at this point in terms of the detail of the project.
Bob Dahlberg: Please apply if you're interested in the project apply for this project or our other projects.
Bob Dahlberg: So that's where we're at right now.
John Mertic: We
Joe Devlin: Are going to be clear, so
Joe Devlin: One guy has already reached out to me numerous times, and another guy is trying to find me they shouldn't be working with me.
Bob Dahlberg: Well, we haven't
Bob Dahlberg: It's up to you if you want to
Bob Dahlberg: Talk to them, but I don't really, I think, a lot of students are trying to game the system by trying to get to know you and and trying to you know that that part should really, we want to an even playing field, right.
John Mertic: So,
Bob Dahlberg: You'll be ample time to to work with them and to interview them and that type of thing later. But if, if you want to get ahead of the game that's up to you but
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah.
Joe Devlin: Mostly just trying to influence some of their. I don't even know whether they'll do any additional reading. But if they were to work on the project that
Joe Devlin: You know, I'm doing with the inspect project, um,
Joe Devlin: You know, there are certain things that would be
Joe Devlin: Good for them to learn
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah. And maybe if that's the case.
Bob Dahlberg: Maybe the thing to do is put it in your
Bob Dahlberg: You know, we have a website that they can go to the website to get over
Bob Dahlberg: They can go and see it.
Bob Dahlberg: Maybe we should put that information on your, your, your description. Okay, thank you.
John Mertic: Yeah, yeah, I just going to suggest that as a perfect idea. It's a great approach there about
John Mertic: You know the purposes is, you know, we all
Bob Dahlberg: Got full time jobs you know it's it's nice that the students are interested
Bob Dahlberg: But we want everyone to have equal access
Bob Dahlberg: If they have a question.
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah, we can put it on the website. But we shouldn't
Bob Dahlberg: Be involved in
Bob Dahlberg: an in depth conversations with the students at this point because yeah I like I said, I think some of them are just trying to game the system.
Dan Horak: Yes, for for this kind of information because they already got maybe over a dozen of people asked me about the projects I proposed to yeah it's quite difficult to really try to communicate with each of them.
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah yeah and and you know and I know that they feel kind of. They want to know more.
But
Bob Dahlberg: You know, I mean,
Bob Dahlberg: I do capstone projects where we give them a one page blurb of what it's about and what skills they need and you know
John Mertic: Now we could spend an awful long time and a lot of effort going, you know, interviewing every single
Bob Dahlberg: student who applies and like I said we had 104 last year.
Bob Dahlberg: You don't want 104 students asked me a detailed questions at this
Point.
John Mertic: Yeah.
John Mertic: Yep, yep. So definitely and and I think also that you know it devolves when it also helps
John Mertic: Clear out the communication. So you're not having to tell the same answer to 10 different students, you can just, you know, if it's a good question. They have
John Mertic: You know, put it up into the the project, you know, definition and people can just reference it up there, make it, make it really simple. Yeah, that's
John Mertic: My idea.
Dan Horak: Is I go update the project is
Dan Horak: Some old information that I
Dan Horak: Have answer to at least some of them already.
John Mertic: coo coo.
John Mertic: And actually also. The nice thing, Bob, I didn't even think about it, the application period is actually open two weeks longer than it was last year. So if we probably adjust everything through time, we're probably better than we thought we were
John Mertic: Yeah yeah
Bob Dahlberg: Well,
John Mertic: I will actually and debugging.
Bob Dahlberg: The Forum problem that we had
Bob Dahlberg: You know,
Bob Dahlberg: I've been so frustrating last two weeks that I my mood is much better. Right.
John Mertic: Data, Data Protection on Google org domain we learned all about it and not in a good way.
John Mertic: Not the best
Bob Dahlberg: Error messages we found
John Mertic: True, true, true.
John Mertic: Cool. Any, any other questions, folks have on the program.
Len Santalucia: Thanks, Bob, very much. I appreciate the update you know
Len Santalucia: I give the students credit for trying to
Len Santalucia: Reach out and do their
Len Santalucia: You know, being a little aggressive
Len Santalucia: It's actually a good thing. But then again, like it's
Len Santalucia: Harder for them trying to do it to us as a little bit much, but yeah well you gotta respect their, their enthusiasm. But, you know, on the same token, you know, we have to respect the mentors time right now.
Len Santalucia: Well yeah yeah and and and also being fair to all applicants.
Len Santalucia: Yeah. And what I'll do is
Bob Dahlberg: I'll go ahead and start send an invite out the calendar invite everyone on, you know, see if we can set up a meeting for, you know, beginning of March, if I do that, you know, two weeks out. We have a better opportunity of get everyone in line. So I'll make sure it gets on everyone's calendar.
Bob Dahlberg: That's just for the for the mentors.
Len Santalucia: Yes, just the mentors. Right. Okay, good.
I had
Len Santalucia: An email, suggesting that this morning. Thank you. Yeah, I saw that
Len Santalucia: That's why I didn't apply because I knew this meeting was coming. And I thought, we just
Bob Dahlberg: Do it one fell swoop.
John Mertic: Very good.
Thank you, sir.
John Mertic: Thank you again and I just dropped in the chat for everyone. The link to grab the flyer. So if you want to take that it's it's set to have all the nice bleed edges to so you can send it right to the printer and have it printed out nicely.
John Mertic: So yeah, if you want to start leveraging that in your circles, please feel free to
John Mertic: Okie doke. Zoe. Um, I think we got a few folks from that project on the line here. I don't know if any one person was to stand up and talk on behalf of it.
Peter Fandel: This is later, I can just
Peter Fandel: Provide the update that I know in terms of releases 118 was released last week.
Peter Fandel: Was a very short development cycle on one nine with code freeze. I think a week from yesterday.
Peter Fandel: And one nine being targeted for what is the 25th of February.
As the
Peter Fandel: LTS are
John Mertic: And
Peter Fandel: That's that's the short of it.
John Mertic: Cool. Any other questions.
John Mertic: What do you think I guess just top of mind from a governance sort of operational perspective on Zoe.
John Mertic: Zoe is working to reelect its leadership group. They just closed the nomination periods and I'm going to be
John Mertic: This excellent reminder for me. I'm going to be dropping an email out to everyone just to confirm their interest and the second is these Zoe group is working to update its logo on there were some concerns with the current one of having issues in in certain
John Mertic: In certain areas of the world.
John Mertic: Along with trying to green. A little bit more brand alignment with some of the other project logos, so
John Mertic: If that community is voting on a new logo right now and that hopefully should close end today or tonight.
John Mertic: And so they'll have a new one to showcase
John Mertic: Any other updates, but I might have missed or anybody else has questions.
John Mertic: Alright.
John Mertic: Moving ahead into the projects, potentially, to be proposed and
John Mertic: Like I mentioned, you know, there's, there's been a few conversations have been putting on some of these. And I thought,
Len Santalucia: Elevating are escalating are just getting this
John Mertic: On the on the
John Mertic: View of the attack. At this point, I
John Mertic: thought would be a really
John Mertic: Good idea. The first
John Mertic: Is something that I think had been talked about
John Mertic: Almost a year ago, actually, I think it. I didn't think about having a project for hosting and developing academic and learning materials.
John Mertic: I had a student contact me.
John Mertic: Not knowing that this was actually a project that had been, you know, considered to be proposed um but wanting to potentially dig into that as a topic.
John Mertic: And, you know, so that, so he's kind of mulling it over and and seeing. I don't think he feels like he could do it all on his own, but he would be looking to help build a you know a potential community and other contributors around this.
John Mertic: So I'm just sort of waiting to hear back from him. I think I might even have a call with him in the next week or two. So I get an update on there. I'll certainly never. Anybody know
John Mertic: There's also have an interest around a project to support paper ledger fabric for S3 90 x
John Mertic: So there is a few changes the hyper ledger project at the end of last year that impacted S3 90 x one was just the change in the built environment.
John Mertic: Which move from a common agenda Jenkins infrastructure to reduce your pipelines and so there was not native support enters your pipelines for us to 90 x
Len Santalucia: Plus there seem to be a kind of a gap of somebody just to maintain that port.
John Mertic: And there's been a few conversations there.
John Mertic: I know Alex Kim has been sort of the center of this and is potentially looking to lead this up and put together a proposal around it. But I think it's still fairly early days, I think there's still a lot of discovery work going on.
John Mertic: On that
John Mertic: When I know you've been involved there. I don't know if there's anything you'd want to share anything that when I stated
Len Santalucia: No, I think you got it for now more to come, as it
Len Santalucia: solidifies so but I think it's going to turn out nice. So thank you for mentioning it, Jeff.
John Mertic: No problem. We're really excited. I think it's a good. It's a good effort to impact industry.
John Mertic: Um, and then the other project, which is then kind of a, a, if I use the term a long tail project to describe something that I feel like I've been hearing discussed on PSC meetings only since 2015
John Mertic: It's about improving open source project discovery for, you know, S3 90 x
John Mertic: There's been actually some traction on this. There's been a group led by Elizabeth Joseph with and you
John Mertic: I think to your Boston has been a part of this and trying to help scope out what a project could look like that would be
John Mertic: An online tool that you, that could be used for somebody they could basically like type in, you know, project name and they could see, you know, read it you know with It Works on
John Mertic: Esther 90 x or not, which destroys versions all things like that are supported. There's, there is the US court out there who's doing commercial support all those sort of things.
John Mertic: There's a, there's a potential code to start with that IBM a developed
John Mertic: That is called PDs that might be a starting point. So I think there's a little bit of a discussion there just determining whether that is the right starting point, or if there should be something else.
John Mertic: We've been doing a few working meetings on that, if I'm happy to invite others to those if if you're interested in being a part of it.
John Mertic: You know, just let me know. But that's, that is looking like it could become a project to propose, maybe I'm guessing here. Maybe it's probably look more like a cue to proposals by gases.
John Mertic: Any questions on that.
Len Santalucia: Okay.
John Mertic: Is there any other projects that folks are aware of out there that that potentially would be proposed to include in the, you know, under a hosted project here at the open mainframe project that I might have missed or other discussions, you might be having.
John Mertic: Well, either. I know everything, or
John Mertic: There's lots of mysteries going on one of the two
John Mertic: No worries there. So yeah, as always, as, as you might be talking with folks.
John Mertic: Around that might be hosting open source projects in the space.
John Mertic: You know definitely help refer you know size if they're looking for a larger Keanu they're trying to build about it, a sustainable home. I think we're seeing some really nice track records with the projects were hosting
John Mertic: That's the end of the agenda that that I had had together here and captured any other items that people want to cover today.
Joe Devlin: Can we do a quick poll of who's going to be at Fort Worth. I'm going to be there. Are you are as well.
Yeah.
Len Santalucia: I'll be there.
John Mertic: I'll be there.
Should be there.
John Mertic: We're gonna
Len Santalucia: Get together as a as a group from the open mainframe project right john
John Mertic: I think that would be a great idea.
John Mertic: I'm kind of slightly tardy on on getting
John Mertic: Together something there are getting together at least a straw poll and maybe something like Monday night is
John Mertic: Sort of, we're thinking just something very informal kind of after the recession.
Bob Dahlberg: Guys, this is Bob Burg, I don't think I'll be there, but I'm not quite sure yet.
Len Santalucia: Oh,
Mike Friesenegger: Yeah, maybe we'll
John Mertic: You know for those everybody who's in the the is using this like maybe I'll throw a message out there. We can get a channel for people are going to be there.
John Mertic: And if any of you actually are doing sessions and share that are related to open mainframe project or a hosted project.
John Mertic: Please send them to me. We want to try to maybe capture like a one pager of all of the open mainframe projects that related sessions. So if you have some just drop them an email to me and we'll, we'll start collecting all those
John Mertic: Know,
Len Santalucia: Gary's got one here. He's got a great one or 30 with Jenkins stuff right oh yeah he has one
Len Santalucia: I think there's several in the open source.
Track
John Mertic: There's a lot as though he related one
John Mertic: Pretty heavy here.
James Vincent: Hey john for what it's worth, and for everybody else to for Boston share August the conference theme is going to be about
mainframe.
James Vincent: So we're going to focus
James Vincent: That open things on the mainframe. So this is going to fit right in.
Len Santalucia: Thanks Jane, great to know
Yeah.
James Vincent: Yeah, if you've got topics.
James Vincent: Call for presentations open for
James Vincent: Boston next week.
James Vincent: So, get them in
sooner the better.
John Mertic: Windows. Windows the call close
James Vincent: One second.
James Vincent: See April 3
John Mertic: April 3 okay
Len Santalucia: Well, yeah, like a month or so.
Len Santalucia: Thanks James
Len Santalucia: Okay, cool.
John Mertic: Thank you.
Joe Devlin: Excellent.
John Mertic: Anything else for today.
John Mertic: Alright, well, I think we'll see several of you there. And a couple weeks to share. And yeah, if you're around Monday night able to just kind of get an informal group of us together and
John Mertic: A dinner or a drink or whatever, whatever is appropriate. You know what
Len Santalucia: We talked about this, maybe we should do it right here with everybody. Why don't we all plan to meet
Len Santalucia: In
Rick Troth: The Solution Center.
Len Santalucia: When it first opened
John Mertic: On Monday.
Len Santalucia: Nail all the all the sessions will be done pretty much and we can meet me at the
John Mertic: IBM booth.
So,
Len Santalucia: Let's do that right when the session opens and when then
John Mertic: Figure out what to do from there.
Len Santalucia: Make it easy for everybody.
Len Santalucia: Okay.
Peter Fandel: That would be what our pharmacy IBM booth.
John Mertic: Yeah, right, when it
Len Santalucia: Opens up you know give everybody a little time to get there.
Peter Fandel: Okay, for the expos yeah for the for the
Len Santalucia: First half hour or so and then we'll
Len Santalucia: Discuss what we can do from there.
Len Santalucia: There are some good. There are some
Len Santalucia: Besides, Jerry at 430 you know he'll be the last one, probably for the day.
Len Santalucia: Then there's something going out with Phoenix software was a reception. They have at eight o'clock.
Len Santalucia: I'm sure they're probably have some food and stuff there at the expo for a while. So maybe we can kind of hang your
Len Santalucia: Do that stuff and then go over to support Phoenix.
John Mertic: Yeah, one of our most recent members.
Len Santalucia: Right, and then
Len Santalucia: Figure out other things we can do from there maybe
I like it.
John Mertic: Make it make it
Len Santalucia: Easy for everybody.
John Mertic: Perfect, perfect. Yes, we'll kind of drop the word out here maybe throw
John Mertic: Something on social as well and
John Mertic: We'll, we'll get this going. Thanks for thanks for helping lead the organization in Atlanta.
Len Santalucia: Or basically coming up with an
John Mertic: Ideas, as all the rest of us were in, you know,
Len Santalucia: Especially me. Yeah.
Len Santalucia: I've always been a good party planner.
John Mertic: Good for you. Good for you. Cool. All right. Well, thank you all very much.
Len Santalucia: Bye everybody. Bye, everyone. Take care.